# Nausicaä

Write your components and styles in `.html` files. Nausicaä generates Go code to construct your components, suited for the js/wasm architecture.

Inspired by [tomato][1].

For documentation, see https://littleroot.github.io/nausicaa.

### Install

```
go get github.com/littleroot/nausicaa/cmd/nausicaa
```

### Documentation

#### Basics

The nausicaa command outputs Go code to construct your components writen
in HTML files. The generated Go code uses the [`webapi`][2] package. Component
files can also specify styles for the component in a top-level `<style>` tag
at the end of the file. The CSS is concatenated to a single output file.

The `--outviews=<path>` and `--outcss=<path>` flags specify the locations for
the generated Go file and the generated CSS file, respectively. If unspecified
the output is written to stdout.

For each component, the nausicaa command generates a Go type representing the
component and a constructor function for the type.

The Go type name is derived from the filename of the component's `.html` file.
If you would like the type and its constructor to be exported, begin the
filename an with uppercase letter, akin to how you would name an exported type in Go.
(Hint: Use camel-case for the filenames, in order to generated idiomatic Go code.)

Consider a component in the file `components/FooBar.html`:

```html
<div class="FooBar"></div>

<style>
.FooBar { font-family: "Inter"; }
</style>
```

The nausicaa command:

```
nausicaa --outviews=path/to/out.go --outcss=path/to/out.css components/FooBar.html
```

generates the Go type and its constructor:

```go
package views

// Code generated by nausicaa. DO NOT EDIT.

...

type FooBar struct {
	Roots []*dom.Element
}

func NewFooBar() *FooBar {
	div0 := _document.CreateElement("div", nil)
	div0.SetAttribute("class", "FooBar")
	return &Foo{
		Roots: []*dom.Element{div0},
	}
}
```

It also generates a CSS file containing the concatenation of
all styles from the input component files (in this case, just the single file).

```css
/* Code generated by nausicaa. DO NOT EDIT. */

/* source: components/Foo.html */

.FooBar { font-family: "Inter"; }
```

## License

MIT

[1]: https://github.com/donjaime/tomato
[2]: https://github.com/gowebapi/webapi
